Add operator quickstart guide (#3595)
openbao/openbao: website/content/docs/get-started/operator-qs.mdx

```shell-session
$ bao status
Key                      Value
---                      -----
Seal Type                shamir
Initialized              false
Sealed                   true

# ...
```

Alternatively, you can visit the UI at https://localhost:8200.

## Step 5: Initialize OpenBao

The [`operator` command](../commands/operator/index.mdx) of the [OpenBao CLI](../commands/index.mdx)
is the main interaction point for operators with their OpenBao instance.

Most importantly, you need to initialize the OpenBao instance before it can be used:

```shell-session
$ bao operator init
Unseal Key 1: sP/4C/fwIDjJmHEC2bi/1Pa43uKhsUQMmiB31GRzFc0R
Unseal Key 2: kHkw2xTBelbDFIMEgEC8NVX7NDSAZ+rdgBJ/HuJwxOX+
Unseal Key 3: +1+1ZnkQDfJFHDZPRq0wjFxEuEEHxDDOQxa8JJ/AYWcb
Unseal Key 4: cewseNJTLovmFrgpyY+9Hi5OgJlJgGGCg7PZyiVdPwN0
Unseal Key 5: wyd7rMGWX5fi0k36X4e+C4myt5CoTmJsHJ0rdYT7BQcF

Initial Root Token: 6662bb4a-afd0-4b6b-faad-e237fb564568

# ...
```

Securely note down the unseal keys and the [root token](../concepts/tokens.mdx#root-tokens).
You will need the unseal keys to unseal your OpenBao instance

> and the root token to authenticate to perform further configuration.

Reviewer: not sure but it could be helpful to add a note about (more advanced) auto seal feature here

Reviewer: ahh it's at the end, that also works.

```shell-session
$ bao write cubbyhole/my-secret my-value=s3cr3t
$ bao read cubbyhole/my-secret
```

:::warning

`cubbyhole` is ephemeral, and scoped to the lifetime of the token!
Real applications should use a secrets engine suitable to their use case (see below).

:::

## Step 7: Connect client applications

To connect production applications to OpenBao, you should:

1. [**Enable the secrets engine**](../secrets/index.mdx) that your application plans to use.
   Different types of engines are available, depending on the use case that you are deploying OpenBao for.

1. [**Define a policy**](../concepts/policies.mdx) stating
   which paths your application is allowed to access.

1. [**Choose an auth method**](../auth/index.mdx) to let client applications authenticate against OpenBao.
   The default built-in method is tokens, but many other methods are available (such as LDAP and OIDC).

1. **Configure the auth method** and create an entity for each of your applications.
   See the "Configuration" section of your chosen auth method for details.
   At creation time, you can link a policy to the entity to restrict what it can access.

> Your client applications should now be able to access OpenBao.

Reviewer 2: Somewhere around here the guide should definitely mention creating an audit device as soon as possible.

Reviewer 3: @satoqz Shouldn't audit device go even earlier in the configuration before startup? Somewhere around step 3 into 4?

Reviewer 2: @cipherboy probably, but what audit device would you recommend in a quickstart guide that's trying to be generic and defer to specific needs up to this section? stdout?

It's not that we're setting up a production instance here, HA and Auto Seals are in the last section below.

Reviewer 3: stdout always, it is probably the most useful in production (k8s for instance), as most container execution platforms support stdout log aggregation.

Author: I've added it mentioning audit devices.

I've added it AFTER initialization, because I believe the storage must be unsealed in order to be able to enable an audit device?

Reviewer 2: @thgoebel yes, though by including the audit device configuration stanza from the get-go it'll automatically enable post-initialize, which is more optimal.

Author: Does it reload the config post-initialize?

Aka, if the order is: "Check status" -> "Add audit device" -> "operator init" then do I need a SIGHUB/restart after adding the audit device?

Reviewer 3: @thgoebel The config needs to be written and loaded prior to operator initialization. So if you:

1. Write a config file (A)
2. Start the server.
3. Write another config file (B)
4. Send SIGHUP
5. Write another config file (C)
6. Call operator init.

Then if an audit device is in A or B, it'll be added during initialization, but if its in C, it won't be seen.

Hence why we're encouraging putting audit device setup in config file prior to starting the server in the beginning.

Author: Ok. I now:

- Added an :::info box to teach the user when the config is reloaded
- Moved the audit device to the config steps at the top (between "listener" and "check status")
- Added an explicit "(re)start OpenBao" instruction to the "Check status" step, to ensure that the user restarts OpenBao after configuring it.

## Next Steps

You now have a basic OpenBao instance running.
Here are additional topics that you might be interested in to further tweak your instance:

- [**Plugins:**](../plugins/index.mdx)
  Plugins extend the core OpenBao functionality. The main plugin categories are
  auth methods, secret engines, database providers, and KMS providers.

- [**High availability:**](../commands/operator/raft.mdx)
  OpenBao supports high availability via the integrated storage backend.
  You can add additional OpenBao instances to the cluster using `operator raft join`.
  Note: Only the first instance must be initialized with a seal.

- [**Sealing:**](../configuration/seal/index.mdx)
  OpenBao can be unsealed with different methods, for example, with keys stored in a KMS or HSM.

>   This is useful for auto-unsealing, to avoid needing manual operator intervention after restarts.

Reviewer 2: Would be nice to mention self-initialization right below Auto Seals since they go hand-in-hand.

Author: I've added self-initialization.

> # Operator quick start

Reviewer 4: I expect this should have some front matter, eg:
```yaml
---
description: Set up a basic OpenBao cluster for real use
---
```

Author: If there is no front matter, Docusaurus takes it from the Markdown:

- When there is no `sidebar_label` or `title`, it takes both from the `#`-heading.
- When there is no description, it takes the first sentence of the page.

If you build this page, it results in:

```html
<meta name="description" content="This quick start explains how operators (administrators) can deploy and initialize OpenBao." data-rh="true">
```

Because of that behaviour, I usually drop the front matter when the Markdown itself is good enough, to avoid duplication. Additionally, I generally try to write docs in BLUF style so that the first sentence and/or paragraph of the Markdown body can serve as a description, too.

Reviewer 4: Sure. This one can be resolved.

This quick start explains how operators (administrators) can deploy and initialize OpenBao.
Once deployed, third-party applications will be able to use your OpenBao instance as a central secret storage.

## Step 1: Install OpenBao

> Follow the [installation guide](../install.mdx) to install OpenBao on a machine of your choice.

Reviewer 4: Even for a quick start, the guide should cover how many computers to use. Typically, more than one. It's OK to explain a limited case (similar to https://openbao.org/docs/get-started/developer-qs/) - but then, this page needs to explain how it is different.

The Kubernetes docs split two ways:
- [Learning](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/learning-environment/)
- [Production](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/)

I think that's a good split. It's OK to target either side of that split. **but** it also really helps to communicate whether the audience is people deploying OpenBao to learn it, or people deploying it in a production-ready / production-like way.

Author: I added more words to clarify this, both in the introduction and at the end.

## Step 2: Locate config file

Make sure you know where your OpenBao [config file](../configuration/index.mdx) is
located, so that you can edit it later when necessary.

> For example, in the official Docker images the file is at `/openbao/config/openbao.hcl`

Reviewer 4: (nit)
```suggestion
For example: the official container images expect to find the configuration at `/openbao/config/openbao.hcl`,
```

and the native Linux packages (DEB/RPM) place it at `/etc/openbao/openbao.hcl`.

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

If you are running OpenBao using a container, you typically provide a full configuration at `/openbao/config/openbao.hcl`
(for example, using a Kubernetes ConfigMap).

```
(does that sound right?)

## Step 3: Configure listener

Configure where OpenBao should listen (Unix socket, TCP HTTP/HTTPS) using the
[`listener` stanza](../configuration/listener/index.mdx).
Edit your `openbao.hcl` accordingly.

When [using HTTPS](../configuration/listener/tcp.mdx#configuring-tls),

> use your preferred CA/PKI to obtain a private key and certificate to use with OpenBao.

Reviewer 4: This isn't wrong, but if people are using OpenBao, they'll probably want to automate this.

Maybe they _shouldn't_ use OpenBao for the certificate(s) that OpenBao uses. That's worth calling out, I think.

Reviewer 3: @thgoebel I suspect you've seen them, but TLS configuration does support ACME: https://openbao.org/docs/configuration/listener/tcp/#acme-parameters  -- and perhaps novel, we've done some work towards a self-hosted OpenBao demo in the past: https://github.com/JanMa/openbao-demo-config/pull/1

## Step 4: Check status

Check OpenBao's status, to verify that the instance is running and that you can connect to the API:

```shell-session
$ bao status
Key                      Value
---                      -----
Seal Type                shamir
Initialized              false
Sealed                   true

> # ...

Reviewer 4: In my mind, we might want to call out that the CLI client tool (`bao`) is also the thing you run. That's not obvious.

```

> Alternatively, you can visit the UI at https://localhost:8200.

Reviewer 4: This might trigger a TLS warning. Worth mentioning?

## Step 5: Initialize OpenBao

> The [`operator` command](../commands/operator/index.mdx) of the [OpenBao CLI](../commands/index.mdx)

Reviewer 4: (nit)
```suggestion
The [`operator` subcommand](../commands/operator/index.mdx) of the [OpenBao CLI](../commands/index.mdx)
```

Author: I used "command" since most of the existing docs talk about "commands" instead of "subcommands". The [`operator` doc](https://openbao.org/docs/commands/operator/) itself says:

> The operator command groups subcommands for operators interacting with OpenBao. Most users will not need to interact with these commands.

I agree that you could consider them subcommands of the `bao` command, but personally I also prefer "command". Otherwise you would need to call `operator init` a sub-sub-command. That becomes unwieldy.

Reviewer 4: I don't think subsubcommand is a thing. But the command / subcommand split is one.

OK, something for a bigger / separate issue.

is the main interaction point for operators with their OpenBao instance.

Most importantly, you need to initialize the OpenBao instance before it can be used:

```shell-session
$ bao operator init
Unseal Key 1: sP/4C/fwIDjJmHEC2bi/1Pa43uKhsUQMmiB31GRzFc0R
Unseal Key 2: kHkw2xTBelbDFIMEgEC8NVX7NDSAZ+rdgBJ/HuJwxOX+
Unseal Key 3: +1+1ZnkQDfJFHDZPRq0wjFxEuEEHxDDOQxa8JJ/AYWcb
Unseal Key 4: cewseNJTLovmFrgpyY+9Hi5OgJlJgGGCg7PZyiVdPwN0
Unseal Key 5: wyd7rMGWX5fi0k36X4e+C4myt5CoTmJsHJ0rdYT7BQcF

> Initial Root Token: 6662bb4a-afd0-4b6b-faad-e237fb564568

Reviewer 3: This doesn't quite look like the right format...? Root token begins with `s.` usually.

Author: I copied this from `website/content/docs/commands/operator/index.mdx`. I've just fixed both occurences.

# ...
```

> Securely note down the unseal keys and the [root token](../concepts/tokens.mdx#root-tokens).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
OpenBao requires cryptographic material each time that it starts: the [unseal keys](../concepts/seal.mdx#unsealing). When you initialize the instance, OpenBao provides
a set of unseal keys. Securely note down the unseal keys and the [root token](../concepts/tokens.mdx#root-tokens).

You can later set up automatic unsealing; if you do, you will instead need to securely store a set
of _recovery keys_.

```
?

Reviewer 3: One suggestion on top of Tim's as well: if we're going to recommend auto-unsealing (we should, its nice), we should probably link to the seal migration doc: https://openbao.org/docs/concepts/seal/#seal-migration

Author: I have moved these sentences around a bit to incorporate your feedback.

You will need the unseal keys to unseal your OpenBao instance
and the root token to authenticate to perform further configuration.

:::warning

These values are highly sensitive and grant access to your OpenBao instance!
It is highly recommended to only use the root token for the initial configuration
(to set up additional auth methods and scoped policies, see below) and discard it afterwards.

:::

> From now on, you will need to [unseal](../concepts/seal.mdx) OpenBao after every restart.

Reviewer 4: If accepting my suggestion to mention unsealing earlier, it's OK to drop the hyperlink on this line.

To do so, run [`operator unseal`](../commands/operator/unseal.mdx) multiple times.
The amount depends on the threshold of your Shamir seal (default 3).

## Step 6: Enable audit device

[Audit devices](../audit/index.mdx) keep a log of all requests to OpenBao.

> It is strongly recommended to enable at least one audit device.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The OpenBao project strongly recommends that you enable at least one audit device.
```

For example, in container environments, it is common to log to stdout:

```hcl
audit "file" "to-stdout" {

>   description = "This audit device should never fail."

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  description = "Write audit information to standard output."
```

  options {
    file_path = "/dev/stdout"
    log_raw = "true"
  }
}
```

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

(This is part of a solution; if you use this approach, make sure that your container platform can durably store the audit logs and protect them from tampering).

```

Author: I have added a sentence to similar effect.

> ## Step 7: Read/write secrets

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Step 7: Test that you can read and write secrets
```

Author: I have added a shorter version that incorporates the word "test". I am trying to keep all h2-titles in this doc short.

Reviewer 4: Sure. This one can be resolved.

$ bao write cubbyhole/my-secret my-value=s3cr3t
$ bao read cubbyhole/my-secret
```

:::warning

`cubbyhole` is ephemeral, and scoped to the lifetime of the token!
Real applications should use a secrets engine suitable to their use case (see below).

:::

## Step 8: Connect client applications

To connect production applications to OpenBao, you should:

1. [**Enable the secrets engine**](../secrets/index.mdx) that your application plans to use.
   Different types of engines are available, depending on the use case that you are deploying OpenBao for.

1. [**Define a policy**](../concepts/policies.mdx) stating
   which paths your application is allowed to access.

1. [**Choose an auth method**](../auth/index.mdx) to let client applications authenticate against OpenBao.
   The default built-in method is tokens, but many other methods are available (such as LDAP and OIDC).

1. **Configure the auth method** and create an entity for each of your applications.
   See the "Configuration" section of your chosen auth method for details.
   At creation time, you can link a policy to the entity to restrict what it can access.

Your client applications should now be able to access OpenBao.

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer 4: To me, all of this sounds like part of a “next steps” section.

Reviewer 4: (line 118, `## Step 8: Connect client applications`, feels like it is part of the next steps for the reader)

Reviewer 4: If this feedback looks confusing, see https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/3595#discussion_r3665636385 for better context.

Author: The idea is that Step 8 is still the minimum that you need to do to get a basic demo/playground/learning environment working. Think of it as step 8a,b,c,d.

"Next Steps" are things that are optional, not required for a learning environment, but relevant for a production environment.

I have reworked this section to incorporate your "what is the target audience and target environment" in the conclusion.

Reviewer 4: My suggestion: subheadings within “Next steps”. Not always right but it is the approach I would personally use.

Author: "Next steps" is now split into "Conclusion" and "Further topics".

From now on, you will need to unseal OpenBao after every restart.
To do so, run [`operator unseal`](../commands/operator/unseal.mdx) multiple times.
The amount depends on the threshold of your Shamir seal (default 3).
You can later set up automatic unsealing; if you do, you will instead need to securely store a set
of _recovery keys_.

Also note down the [_root token_](../concepts/tokens.mdx#root-tokens).
It is needed to authenticate to the OpenBao API, through which you will perform further configuration.

:::warning

These values are highly sensitive and grant access to your OpenBao instance!
It is highly recommended to only use the root token for the initial configuration
(to set up additional auth methods and scoped policies, see below) and discard it afterwards.

:::

## Step 7: Test secrets reading/writing

For test purposes, log in with the root token:

```shell-session
$ bao login
```

You can then read/write secrets that are scoped to this token using the
[`cubbyhole` secrets engine](../secrets/cubbyhole.mdx):

```shell-session
$ bao write cubbyhole/my-secret my-value=s3cr3t
$ bao read cubbyhole/my-secret
```

> :::warning

Reviewer 4: (nit) I wonder if this can be a callout less than a warning.

Author: I made it an "info".

write policies that are restrictive, and use separate identities for separate applications.

:::

## Conclusion

You now have a basic OpenBao instance running and applications connected.

If this is your first time following this guide, you likely took a few shortcuts
(such as copying the unseal keys to an insecure notes app, skipping setting up
an audit device, using the root token for everything, or defining a policy
without any restrictions).

To set up a production instance, you can ultimately follow the same steps as above.
However, don't take shortcuts, and follow all advice and warnings.
Before deploying a production instance, the OpenBao projects recommends that you
familiarize yourself with the rest of this documentation.
A list of further reading topics is provided below.

## Further topics

- [**Concepts:**](../concepts/index.mdx)
  Learn how OpenBao works and how its concepts impact your day-to-day usage and operation.

- [**High availability:**](../commands/operator/raft.mdx)
  OpenBao supports high availability via the integrated storage backend.
  You can add additional OpenBao instances to the cluster using `operator raft join`.

>   Note: Only the first instance must be initialized with a seal.

Reviewer 3: Note to @cipherboy -- revise later.
